## Class Gift

### 01-04-2011

Good news! The energy dashboard monitoring software provided in part by
the Class of 2007 gift fund has been useful since installed by Phil
Dirkse, '11, during his 2010 Green Campus Summer Fellowship. We can now
see the campus electricity demand base load (kW) through programmed
trending. This better positions the energy manager when negotiating
electricity procurement contracts that may include the purchasing of
shaped blocks of peak and/or off peak electricity. Financial
sustainability, budget certainty and reduced carbon emissions are all
tied to the Olin energy management program.

Also, the Sustainability Steering Committee (which includes Green
Initiatives Fund student representatives) has been discussing the
completion and commissioning of the small PV array already installed out
behind West Hall. We are considering if this project is a suitable
initiative for future funding through the Class of 2007 gift.

### 06-30-2010

The Olin campus electrical distribution system now has a complete real
time power quality monitoring system by General Electric due in part to
the generosity of the Class of 2007. This summer, our Olin Green Campus
Summer Fellow, Phil Dirske, 2011, installed the final piece of this
valuable system which was the Enervista Viewpoint Monitoring
visualization software package. Phil built user friendly monitoring and
trending graphs that will create historical trending archives of power
quality and usage. It will enhance the energy management program
providing energy resource management at a higher level. Students who
have an interest in electricity will find this system educational. Plans
are for increased energy awareness through community display of this and
other mechanical systemsâ€™ statuses thus providing a better understanding
of how our resources are being used.
